# Mappificator

This is a pile of bodging scripts for playing around with Minecraft modding mappings. It is currently able to work with Official, MCP, Yarn, MCP Config Tsrg, and Fabric Intermediary mappings, and provides a host of methods and parsers to analyze and mix various mapping sets.

#### The "Complete" MCP Mapping Export

The primary use for this at the moment is to generate a 100% mapped mcp snapshot export, for use in Forge 1.16.2 development. All required materials to make this are downloaded locally, and the mapping is built and uploaded to the user's maven local. For legal reasons these mappings cannot be redistributed as is and have to be built in situ.

This involves:
- Using official field and method names. These are 100% complete and have the advantage of a guarantee of no field / method shadowing conflicts.
- Adding parameter names and comments from **both** the most recent MCP Bot export, and the current work in progress MMS 1.16.3 Mapping Spreadsheet.
- Filling in any unmapped parameters with autogenerated names based on parameter types. These are checked for uniqueness with other parameters in the method (suffixed with consecutive ints to avoid conflicts if they appear), and are also suffixed with an underscore to both identify the auto generated parameters, and prevent conflicts with local variables.
- In addition, parameters are manually verified by me, and corrections are included in `build/corrections-1.16.3.json`, which can also serve as a place to manually map particularly important parameters. `complete_mcp_export_cli.py` is useful for reverse engineering srg names of mapped sources.

In order to get this export:

- You must install [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/). (Python will invoke `mvn` via command line so it must be on your path.)
- Run `mappificator/make_complete_mcp_export.py`

In order to use this (or any other custom mcp export) in a mod dev environment:

Add `mavenLocal()` to your repositories:

```
repositories {
    mavenLocal()
}
```

And change your mapping version and channel to the one produced by this export. (Hint: the version can be found and modified in the first line of `make_complete_mcp_export.py`)

```
minecraft {
    mappings channel: 'snapshot', version: '<VERSION>'
```

Note: as this mapping scheme is based on the official mappings, it is possible to use the official mappings in a build server where more readable source is not a concern and the source code will be perfectly cross-compatible. For example, switching to official mappings when an environment variable is present:

```
minecraft {
    def officialVersion = System.getenv("OFFICIAL_MAPPINGS")
    if (officialVersion == null) {
        mappings channel: 'snapshot', version: mappificator_version
    } else {
        mappings channel: 'official', version: mc_version
    }
```